---
comments: true
date: 2012-12-20T13:02:20Z
tags: ["ruby", "rails", "scripts", "rails-3"]
title: Open files generated by 'rails generate' in your editor
url: /2012/12/20/open-files-generated-by-rails-generate-in-your-editor/
---

<small>
Note: This post is for people who use the terminal to run Rails generators. It probably won't interest you if your editor has a plugin to run them.
</small>

After running a Rails generator, you'll often need to edit the generated files in your text editor.

Rails 4 may soon have the ability to open generated files in your text editor if you pass the `--editor` option on the command line.
You can [follow my pull request for more details](https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/8553).

If you use the `--editor` option (or its `-e` alias), the generator will open all generated or copied files in your text editor.
The default editor is your `GUI_EDITOR` or `EDITOR` environment variable, but you can set the editor manually with `--editor=manual-code-editor`.

Rails 3 isn't accepting any new features, so here's how you can use the `--editor` option for your Rails 3 apps:

## Single Rails 3 app

To install the `--editor` option in a single Rails 3 app, run the following command from your app directory:

```bash
curl https://gist.github.com/raw/4342095/rails -o script/rails
```

This will update `script/rails`, and you can commit the change.

## Globally for all Rails 3 apps

If you are developing a lot of different apps, it might be too much hassle to update all of them. Instead, you can download the custom `rails` script to your `/bin` directory, and add some shortcut functions to your `.bashrc`.

### Download script:

```bash
sudo curl https://gist.github.com/raw/4342095/rails3_with_editor -o /bin/rails3_with_editor
sudo chmod +x /bin/rails3_with_editor
```

### Add shortcut functions:

Add the following to your `~/.bashrc`:

```bash
rge() { rails3_with_editor generate "$@" --editor; }
rgm() { rails3_with_editor generate migration "$@" --editor; }
```

Now you can run `rgm` to generate a migration from any Rails 3 app.

```

```
